So what is this HTL that I've been talking about so much.
Well it stands for HyperText Markup Language And essentially it's the language of the web it's the language
that every web page is written in.
If you want to learn more about it just google what is HDMI.
And there's some great explanations there that have a bit more detail.
But for now I'm going to show you some HDMI L and that's what we're going to be working with.
So we're going to go to a very nice web site called example dot com which is very much what it says
on the tin.
It's an example Web site.
It's a nice easy way to get used to what aged mail is and how it works.
So this is what exampled dot com looks like what we want to do is to look at the HCM L that creates
this page and we can do that very easily in crime by control clicking or right clicking on the page
and clicking view page source.
You can do it in most other browsers as well but this is it.
So this is the page source or the HTL mail that creates this page.
So let's have a little look and see what's going on here.
First off you'll notice that quite a few things have these angle brackets around them.
These are called tags and they are special keywords that tell the browser something about the code that's
being written.
So here you can see at the very top we've got a doctype which just tells the browser the document type
that we're working with here which is of course HGL then we've got a second tag which says it's DML
and that's where the TNL begins.
Now if I jump right to the end of the document down here you can see we've got the same thing but with
a slash before it here.
And so that means that is where the L ends.
So the tag at the top here is known as the opening tag because it's where the HVM l begins and then
the tag at the end is the ending tag or closing tag because it's where the HDMI ends.
Then moving down we've got the head or head of the document.
So this part is where information about the documents such as its title and some other special information
is stored.
We'll look at that a little bit more detail in a minute but just notice we've got a closing tag there
with head in it.
So that's where the head ends.
So this bit here.
Is the head of the page.
I'm going to ignore the contents of the head for the moment because I'm a little bit more complicated
and just go straight to the body.
So after the head comes the body and there's the clothes intact for the body.
So this is the body part of the page which as you might guess contains the main content of the page.
Then after the body we have a DIV tag.
Dave here is short for division or section of a Web site.
So we might divide the different sections up into different divisions and we do that using Dave tags.
So from the day of starting time to the day of ending tag is the div section.
Now we're almost at the first bit of content here.
But just before that we've got another type which is H-1 and that's known as a header tag and it's header
one.
So this is the main header for the page.
And there you can see it's closing tag.
So this is the each part of the domain.
And essentially what that does is it takes the text example domain and makes it nice and big and bold.
So the browser knows to make example domain big and bold because it's inside these H-1 tags here.
Next we've got PPI which is short for paragraph.
So this is the paragraph tag and this section here is therefore a paragraph and paragraph just means
normal text really.
So as you can see this text is just displayed normally it's not particularly big and bold.
And then underneath that we've got a second paragraph section which has inside it a link We're going
to be talking more about links later on so I won't go into exactly how this works.
But as you might guess this link if you click on it will lead to this page here.
So IANA dot org slash domains slash example.
Not sure if I pronounce that right.
Hopefully you get the idea.
So that's the actual content of the page which is contained within the body tags there.
And that's why it ends up looking like that.
But there's a little bit more style that we haven't looked at yet we've got this gray background and
we've got this curvy white box here as well.
So where is that encoded in the l.
Well this is why we need to look in the head section.
So now let's have a quick look and see if we can get to grips with this.
So first off we've got a title which is example the name and the title is what appears in the browser
tab up here.
You can actually see it anywhere in the page itself but it's what appears in that tab up there.
Then we have a char set or character set UTF 8 is the standard character set.
If you want to check out exactly what UTF 8 is feel free to have a quick Google.
But for now we just need to know that our standard character set that we're going to be using is UTF.
Then we have a second metor tag which is Content-Type.
So this tells the browser again what the type of content is that we have here.
And it's just text H.J. email and UTF 8 just reinforces what we've seen up here.
Then we have a viewport a tag which defines the width of our page which is just set to a device with
and the initial scale is one which makes sense with optically want to zoom in or zoom out.
When we load the page and then finally we've got this style section.
So this is CSX or cascading style sheets which we'll be looking at in much more detail in the next section.
But for now we can just have a look at some of it and see what it might be doing.
So first of all we've got a body here which matches our body tag down there and we've got a background
color and then a special code and this code actually matches the gray of this background color.
So if you had a different code here you'd have a different background color.
And we've got a margin in paddings settings and we've got a font settings as well.
So there's a number of different fonts that might be used on this page.
And then we've got some styling instructions for the DIV tag which you'll remember is that section there.
So it's good to with in a certain number of pixels a margin some padding a background color and a border
radius.
So that's what sets up this white box to be the width that it is and to have those nice curvy borders
there.
And finally we've got our link color which just sets the color of the link to this blue here and the
text decoration.
None.
Tells it not to be underlined because normally links are underlined but on this Web site they are not.
And this last bit here I won't go into much detail but really it's just some special stylings that only
happen if the width is less than 700 pixels.
I probably you're looking at it on a phone.
So that's it.
We'll be looking at this in much more detail in the next video.
But all you need to remember at this stage is that we have tags in each L which open and close and there
are certain special tags that divide up the sections of our code so the header and then the body and
then within those sections we have more tags that allow us to adjust the style and the contents of the
page that we're creating.
Got that.
I hope so in the next video then we'll go back to your text editor and we'll start creating a website
for ourselves.